Random thoughts and notes about The Art of War, by Sun Zhu.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Banners and flags are tools for managing crowds. So are torches,
drrumbs, and gongs.

Axioms of war: don't go fighting uphill.  Don't attack and army at
bay, or a fleeing army.

"Th3ere are roads not to take.  There are armies not to attack."

There are a lot of datatypes.  the datatypes are typically flat.  For
example,

CalamitiesOfTheGeneral ::= Flight | Impotence | Decay | Collapse |
Chaos | Rout.  This is the way of defeat.


Terrain is a huge factor.  Not only tdo the state of the participanets
matter, but the venue.

"To the question: How should we confront numerous and well arrayed,
poised to attack? My reply is: seize something he cherishes, and he
will do your will."


There's a comment to fight where retreat is impossible.  Basically,
do-or-die situations.

Paradox: "Success in war lies in scrutinzing enemy intentions and
going with them."  I can see why Go theory is often compared to The
Art of War: the above is a recommendation when playing Go as well.


Dynamic values, such as Fire and Wind, are also factors of terrain.


Espionage is invaluable.  It can't be guessed or predicted: "It can be
obtained only from men, from those who know the enemy's dispoitions."

Some of the datatypes are a little off.  "There are five sorts of
spies: Local, Internal, Double, Dead, Live."  Since a spy may have
mixtures of these properties, this is actually not a flat datatypes.



Fundamentals of war:
    * The way: the will to control or be controlled
    * Heaven: what can not be controlled, beyond the reach of war?
    * Earth: what can be contested
    * Command: the tools of control
    * Discipline: the act of control

Plants taht are good will dictated success.

Decetion is the way of war.  "Strike with Chaos."

What are the "temple calculations"?

There's a rationalization of victory: whoever has the most will win.
War becomes a maximization problem.


How much is one thousand taels of silver?

Supply lines ,the upkeep of war, is expensive.  Wars must not linger.

"No nation has ever benefited from a protrated war."  Hmmmm...

Supply lines: avoid them if you can.

Use the enemy: use spoils of war.  Use victory over the enemy to
enhance your own strength.

"He who kows neither self nor enemy will fail in every battle."

Forms and dispositions: first defend, to be invunerable, then wait for
an opponents vunerability to attack.

An interesting idea: the victorious army is victorious first, and
seeks battle later.  The defeated army does battle first, and seeks
victory later.



There is a Design Recipe for war describe in the book:

   - Measurement
   - Estimation
   - Calculation
   - Comparison
   - Victory      (Profit!)


Potential energy.  Division: hierarchies of structure to manage big
numbers.  Use the idea of representation.

The number "five" comes up a lot.  Five notes, five colors, five
flavors, etc.

Ther's also an argument that there are an infinite number of words
with a finite alphabet. Cute combinatorics comments.

First on the battlefield, wait for the enemy fresh.

Outnumber your enemy, and coordinate.

The form of victory is fluid and unrepeatable.
